
  ASIScan — OWASP ASI / LLM Top 10 static audit
  2 files · 2 KB · 18 rules · 15ms


   CRITICAL   ASI01  Agent Goal Hijack
  An attacker redirects the agent's objective using content the agent reads
  (a web page, a document, a tool result, an email). Because retrieved text
  is concatenated into the same context window as the operator's
  instructions, the model cannot reliably tell data from directives.

    agent.ts:13:9
      Untrusted or dynamic content is interpolated directly into the system
      prompt. Anything reachable by an attacker in that string becomes an
      instruction.
      │ const systemPrompt = `You are an ops assistant. Context: ${retrievedDoc}


   CRITICAL   ASI02  Tool Misuse & Exploitation
  Legitimate tools are bent toward illegitimate outcomes via deceptive input
  or poisoned tool metadata. A tool that is safe in isolation becomes an
  attack primitive when its parameters are model-controlled and unvalidated.

    agent.ts:26:5
      Tools are defined but no parameter schema validation is evident.
      Model-produced arguments should be validated server-side before
      execution.
      │ tools: [

    agent.ts:26:5
      No tool allowlist or per-invocation authorisation policy detected.
      Agents should hold the minimum tool set required for the current task.
      │ tools: [


   CRITICAL   ASI03  Identity & Privilege Abuse
  Agents borrow human credentials or run on long-lived tokens. When such an
  agent is hijacked, the attacker inherits every permission the token
  carries, and the audit trail attributes the actions to a human.

    agent.ts:7:29
      Hardcoded long-lived credential. Agent credentials must be
      short-lived, scoped, and injected at runtime.
      │ const openai = new OpenAI({ apiKey: "sk-proj-abcd1234efgh5678ijkl9012mnop" }); // ASI03

    agent.ts:26:5
      Agent performs tool calls but no scoped or short-lived credential
      exchange is evident -- the agent may be running on a standing token.
      │ tools: [


   CRITICAL   ASI05  Unexpected Code Execution (RCE)
  Natural language is converted into running code outside its intended
  boundary. Code-interpreter tools, dynamic evaluation, and shell tools let
  a hijacked agent execute arbitrary commands on the host.

    agent.ts:30:18
      A code-execution tool is exposed to the agent with no evidence of
      sandboxing or network egress restriction.
      │ name: "run_command",

    agent.ts:44:5
      Shell command built by string interpolation or concatenation.
      Model-influenced values in a shell string are a command-injection
      primitive.
      │ exec(`bash -c "${args.cmd}"`, (e, stdout) => {

    agent.ts:55:11
      Shell command built by string interpolation or concatenation.
      Model-influenced values in a shell string are a command-injection
      primitive.
      │ await exec(`aws s3 rb s3://${name} --force`);


   CRITICAL   ASI10  Rogue Agents
  An agent operates outside policy while appearing legitimate -- continuing
  to run after its task ends, pursuing objectives no one assigned, or
  persisting through restarts. Without behavioural baselines there is
  nothing to compare against, and without a kill switch there is no way to
  stop it.

    agent.ts:11:23
      No kill switch or cancellation path is evident for running agents.
      Containment requires the ability to halt an agent mid-execution.
      │ export async function runAgent(userInput: string, retrievedDoc: string) {

    agent.ts:26:5
      Agent actions are dispatched with no evident audit logging. Rogue
      behaviour is undetectable and unforensicable without an action log.
      │ tools: [


   CRITICAL   LLM01  Prompt Injection
  User or retrieved input alters the model's behaviour in ways the operator
  did not intend. Direct injection comes from the user; indirect injection
  arrives through content the model reads.

    agent.ts:23:35
      Model is invoked with no evident input guardrail, moderation,
      injection filter, or delimiting of untrusted content.
      │ const completion = await openai.chat.completions.create({


  HIGH  ASI04  Agentic Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
  Compromised frameworks, MCP servers, model artifacts, or plugins propagate
  through every deployment that trusts them. Agentic stacks pull in a long
  tail of fast-moving dependencies, and MCP servers execute with the agent's
  privileges.

    package.json:6:5
      Unpinned dependency range. Agentic dependencies should be pinned to
      exact versions with a committed lockfile.
      │ "openai": "latest",

    package.json:7:5
      Unpinned dependency range. Agentic dependencies should be pinned to
      exact versions with a committed lockfile.
      │ "express": "*",

    package.json:8:5
      Unpinned dependency range. Agentic dependencies should be pinned to
      exact versions with a committed lockfile.
      │ "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk": ">=1.0.0"

    package.json:8:7
      MCP servers are configured but no SBOM/AIBOM, provenance verification,
      or dependency scanning is evident.
      │ "@modelcontextprotocol/sdk": ">=1.0.0"


  HIGH  ASI06  Memory & Context Poisoning
  Malicious content planted in session context or long-term memory shapes
  all future behaviour. Unlike a single hijacked turn, a poisoned memory
  persists and re-attacks the agent on every subsequent run, often across
  users.

    agent.ts:9:7
      Agent memory is persisted without an evident per-user or per-tenant
      scope key. Cross-tenant memory bleed is both a poisoning and a
      disclosure vector.
      │ const memory: Record<string, string[]> = {}; // ASI06: global, unscoped


  HIGH  ASI07  Insecure Inter-Agent Communication
  Unauthenticated agent-to-agent channels let an attacker impersonate an
  agent, tamper with messages in flight, or replay a previously trusted
  delegation.

    agent.ts:62:48
      Plaintext HTTP endpoint. Inter-agent traffic must be encrypted and
      mutually authenticated.
      │ const r = await runAgent(goal, await fetch("http://feeds.acme-internal.io/tasks").then((x) => x.text()));


  HIGH  ASI08  Cascading Failures
  One agent's error propagates through connected workflows. Without
  isolation, a single hijack or malformed output compromises every
  downstream system, and retry loops amplify the blast radius rather than
  containing it.

    agent.ts:11:23
      Agent execution loop with no evident iteration cap, retry bound, or
      timeout. An agent that cannot terminate cannot be contained.
      │ export async function runAgent(userInput: string, retrievedDoc: string) {

    agent.ts:26:5
      Tool dispatch without evident error handling -- failures will
      propagate uncontained to callers.
      │ tools: [


  HIGH  ASI09  Human-Agent Trust Exploitation
  The agent manipulates approval by controlling what the human sees at the
  moment of confirmation. A summary that says 'archive 3 old files' can
  accompany a call that deletes a bucket. Approval UX built from
  model-generated prose is a confused-deputy channel.

    agent.ts:53:50
      Approval gate is bypassed. Irreversible agent actions require explicit
      human confirmation of the resolved action.
      │ export async function deleteBucket(name: string, autoApprove = true) {

    agent.ts:53:23
      Irreversible or high-impact operations are reachable with no evident
      human-in-the-loop confirmation step.
      │ export async function deleteBucket(name: string, autoApprove = true) {

    agent.ts:54:7
      Approval gate is bypassed. Irreversible agent actions require explicit
      human confirmation of the resolved action.
      │ if (autoApprove) {


  HIGH  LLM02  Sensitive Information Disclosure
  PII, credentials, or proprietary data leak through model output, logged
  prompts, or third-party provider retention. Agents widen this surface
  because they read from internal systems and write to external ones.

    agent.ts:38:3
      Full prompt or credential material written to logs without redaction.
      │ console.log("prompt was", messages); // LLM02


  MEDIUM  LLM10  Unbounded Consumption
  Unrestricted inference lets an attacker drive cost, exhaust capacity, or
  run a model-extraction campaign. Agentic loops multiply this: one request
  can fan out into hundreds of model calls.

    agent.ts:23:35
      Model invoked with no output token cap.
      │ const completion = await openai.chat.completions.create({

    agent.ts:23:35
      No rate limiting or quota evident around model invocation.
      │ const completion = await openai.chat.completions.create({

    agent.ts:23:35
      Model calls have no evident timeout or abort signal.
      │ const completion = await openai.chat.completions.create({

  Remediation

  ASI01 Agent Goal Hijack
  Structurally separate retrieved content from instructions: place untrusted
  text in a dedicated, clearly delimited message or field and instruct the
  model that it is data, never commands. Re-assert the system objective
  after any tool result. Constrain the agent to an explicit allowlist of
  goals and require human confirmation before the objective changes.

  ASI02 Tool Misuse & Exploitation
  Scope every tool to least privilege. Validate tool parameters against a
  strict schema server-side -- never trust the model to produce well-formed
  arguments. Apply runtime policy checks before execution, and treat tool
  descriptions from third-party servers as untrusted input.

  ASI03 Identity & Privilege Abuse
  Give each agent its own identity distinct from any user. Issue
  short-lived, narrowly scoped credentials with automatic expiration;
  exchange them per task rather than holding a standing token. Never let an
  agent operate under a human's session credentials.

  ASI05 Unexpected Code Execution (RCE)
  Execute all model-authored code in a containerised sandbox with
  deny-by-default network egress, a read-only root filesystem, and a hard
  timeout. Prefer parameterised APIs over raw shell. Never pass model output
  to eval, exec, or a shell string.

  ASI10 Rogue Agents
  Establish behavioural baselines and alert on deviation (unusual tool mix,
  unusual volume, off-hours activity). Govern agent lifecycle explicitly:
  registration, expiry, deregistration. Implement and regularly test a kill
  switch that revokes credentials and halts execution. Log every action to
  an append-only store.

  LLM01 Prompt Injection
  Treat all model input as untrusted. Delimit and label external content,
  constrain output format, and enforce privilege boundaries outside the
  model -- the model is not a security control. Validate that outputs
  conform to expectations before acting.

  ASI04 Agentic Supply Chain Vulnerabilities
  Maintain an AIBOM covering models, prompts, tools, and MCP servers. Pin
  exact versions and commit a lockfile. Require signed releases and verified
  provenance for MCP servers. Run SCA policy checks before deployment, not
  after.

  ASI06 Memory & Context Poisoning
  Validate and attribute every memory write -- record who wrote it and from
  what source. Scope memory per user and per task; never share a global
  memory across tenants. Keep context ephemeral by default, expire
  aggressively, and make stored memory inspectable and revocable by the
  operator.

  ASI07 Insecure Inter-Agent Communication
  Require mutual authentication between agents (mTLS or signed tokens). Sign
  and integrity-protect every message, including a nonce and timestamp to
  defeat replay. Maintain an explicit delegation allowlist describing which
  agent may instruct which.

  ASI08 Cascading Failures
  Isolate blast radius: separate environments and credentials per agent. Add
  circuit breakers that trip on behavioural deviation, not just on HTTP
  errors. Bound retries and total steps. Fail closed -- an agent that cannot
  verify its state should stop, not proceed.

  ASI09 Human-Agent Trust Exploitation
  Show the raw, resolved action -- exact command, exact target, exact scope
  -- not a model-written summary of it. Keep immutable logs of what was
  displayed alongside what was executed, so divergence is detectable after
  the fact. Forbid persuasive or urgency framing in confirmation copy.
  Require re-authentication for irreversible actions.

  LLM02 Sensitive Information Disclosure
  Redact PII and secrets before they enter the context window and before
  prompts are logged. Apply output filtering for sensitive patterns. Confirm
  provider data retention and opt out of training use. Enforce per-user data
  scoping on retrieval.

  LLM10 Unbounded Consumption
  Enforce per-user and per-key rate limits, cap max_tokens, set request
  timeouts, bound agent iterations, and alert on spend anomalies. Apply
  quotas at the edge, not only inside the agent loop.

   11 critical   ·  12 high  ·  3 medium

